Patrick Debois a Belgian consultant,PM agile practitioner is one of the initiator of DevOps.

PLAN
CREATE
VERIFY
PACKAGE
RELEASE
CONFIGURE
MONITOR

WaterFall method:
-Requirement Analysis.
-System Design
-Implementation
-Testing
-Deployment
-Maintainance

The major disadvantages of the Waterfall Model are as follows −

No working software is produced until late during the life cycle.

High amounts of risk and uncertainty.
Not a good model for complex and object-oriented projects.
Poor model for long and ongoing projects.
Not suitable for the projects where requirements are at a moderate to high risk of changing. So, risk and uncertainty is high with this process model.
It is difficult to measure progress within stages.
Cannot accommodate changing requirements.
Adjusting scope during the life cycle can end a project.
Integration is done as a "big-bang. at the very end, which doesn't allow identifying any technological or business bottleneck or challenges early.

Version Control System / Source Control System:

Client-Server Based Source Control System:

Since two people cannot work at the same time so these two methods are used 
- Lock-Modify-Unlock
- Copy-Modify-Merge

Distributed Source Control System:

Distributed source control system create replicas of the repository on each computer.

Relationship between Agile and DevOps:
Terraform:

With the help of terraform we can codify our infrastructure.

infrastructure means EC2, RT, LB, IGW, Autoscaling.

History:
It is a open source tool created by HashiCorp in 2014
Written in GO language. Backend language
It supports declarative configuration language known as HashiCorp configuration language.

Why Terraform:
It is easy then Ansible/Puppet/Chef.

Ansible/Puppet are configuration management tools.
Terraform comes in scenario when our focus is on building infrastructure instead of configuration management.

Wht not CloudFormation:
Cover almost all service which is provided by AWS.
This service is free but support only AWS platform.

How Terraform works:


Advantages of Terraform:
Open Source.
Multi-tier application.
Less human effort.

How to install Terraform:
Download
move from /opt/terraform to /usr/bin
export path to /root/.bashrc

Create a user and give programmatic access with administrative policy.

#aws configure 
paste key from AWS portal.

TERRAFORM BASIC COMMANDS:

Terraform init
Terraform plan
Terraform apply
Terraform validate      (Check syntax)
Terraform fmt           (check indentation)
Terraform providers     (AWS/GCP/VMWARE)
Terraform show          (Make easy to read)


TERRAFORM ADVANCE COMMAND:
Terraform graph

First install gvedit.exe

#terraform graph > test.dot

Terraform workspace

#Terraform workspace new uat
#Terraform workspace new prod

- To Select
#Terraform workspace select dev

#terraform apply       Will goto main.tf file a create a instance
 
